Government: Austria

National target title: Plant protection products and fertilizers

Description: The risk to biodiversity posed by the active substances of plant protection products put into circulation is significantly reduced, taking into account European requirements (50% reduction) as well as reductions already achieved in Austria. The future Austrian contribution results from the definition of the Austrian target values in application of the new EU Regulation on the sustainable use of plant protection products and amending Regulation (EU) 2021/2115. The use of plant protection products in active substance group 3 of the Harmonised Risk Indicator HRI-1 (“particularly hazardous substitution candidates”) has decreased significantly when comparing the periods 2015–2017 and 2028–2030, taking into account future European requirements (reduction by 50%, new EU Regulation on the sustainable use of plant protection products and amending Regulation (EU) 2021/2115). Nutrient losses from fertilisers are significantly reduced, taking into account European requirements (50% reduction, EU Biodiversity Strategy 2030), while at the same time avoiding a deterioration in soil fertility and taking into consideration the upstream services already provided by Austria. The need for mineral fertilisers while maintaining soil fertility is reduced by 20% in line with the NECP measure.

Main policy measures: Measures to be implemented immediately are: Further development and application of a more suitable ecotoxicological indicator for the risk assessment of plant protection products on biodiversity as part of the active substance assessment at EU level. Implementation an impact assessment of the reduction of plant protection products (including competitiveness and security of supply) and the reduction of fertilisers. Implementation of the National Action Plan on the sustainable use of plant protection products ( NAP ), in particular with regard to the reduction targets for plant protection products. Promotion of research into alternative plant protection methods and active substances and their provision. Strengthening of natural pest control through the targeted creation of biodiversity areas and landscape elements (see Chapter 1.3.1) and promoting research projects to assess their effectiveness. Promotion of the use of drift-reducing techniques when applying any plant protection products in order to minimise the impact on non-target areas and organisms. Promotion of the breeding of resistant varieties of locally adapted crops, including organic and seed-resistant varieties, and greater consideration for these traits in variety testing. Promotion of crop rotation measures or specifications for crop diversification that help to further reduce the use of pesticides and fertilisers (as a contribution to integrated plant protection). Implementation of the measures of the future Ammonia Reduction Regulation and the NECP to reduce agricultural gaseous nitrogen emissions, including ammonia emissions to reduce eutrophying nitrogen inputs. Promotion of graduated meadow cultivation as part of rural development (implementation of measures and further training). Increase in the proportion of solid manure and compost in the application of farm fertiliser on grassland. Expansion of advisory and training services for farmers for the increased use of more specific active substances and the more targeted use of these active substances. Advice on precision farming, crop diversity and crop rotation. (Precision farming serves to ensure a more efficient use of resources and the least possible negative impact on the environment; developments in the field of smart farming provide strategies for selecting suitable varieties, plant protection products or fertilisers). Evaluation of buffer strips in accordance with the Nitrate Action Programme and GLÖZ 4 (creation of buffer strips along watercourses with a focus on water bodies with material pollution) with regard to their impact on biodiversity. Development and implementation of a reduction programme for pesticide applications in domestic and allotment gardens. Discussion of a reduction programme for pesticide applications in protected areas. Expansion of advisory services and educational programmes for non-professional users with regard to the use of plant protection products. Continuation and further development of the “plant protection warning service”.

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: nan

