Government: Canada

National target title: Pollution and biodiversity

Description: Reduce pollution risks and the negative impact of pollution from all sources, by 2030, to levels that are not harmful to biodiversity and ecosystem functions and services, considering cumulative effects, including: reducing excess nutrients lost to the environment by at least half including through more efficient nutrient cycling and use; reducing the overall risk from pesticides and highly hazardous chemicals by at least half including through integrated pest management, based on science, taking into account food security and livelihoods; and also preventing, reducing, and working towards eliminating plastic pollution. Pollution is one of the five largest direct drivers of global biodiversity loss. It impacts biodiversity by disrupting ecosystem functions and reducing the resilience of the systems and organisms living within them. Pollution also has negative impacts on human health. The triple crises of biodiversity loss, climate change, and pollution are intrinsically connected. Minimizing biodiversity loss by addressing risk associated with pollution is crucial to sustainably maintaining ecosystem functions and services.

Main policy measures: Nutrients Led by ECCC, the 2023-2033 Freshwater Action Plan aims to achieve Canada's Lake Erie phosphorus load reduction targets by 2039 through the adoption of an innovative precision conservation approach whereby areas contributing the highest phosphorus loads will be identified, and suites of partner-led actions that will yield the greatest results will be advanced. The Freshwater Action Plan also aims to complete the clean-up of 12 of 14 remaining Canadian Great Lakes Areas of Concern by 2030 and all 14 by 2038. It also aims to establish Canada-US nutrient reduction targets for all Canadian Great Lakes. Efforts will advance targeted strategies to accelerate reduction of nutrient pollution to other major lakes (e.g., Lake Winnipeg) and freshwater ecosystems. Pesticides and nutrients Beneficial management practices (BMPs) and technologies optimize agricultural pesticide application to reduce losses and mitigate potential risks. Under successive federal-provincial-territorial Agricultural Policy Frameworks, including the current Sustainable Canadian Agricultural Partnership (2023-2028), provinces and territories (PTs) design and deliver agri-environmental programs. AAFC leads the delivery of other federal programs, such as the Agricultural Climate Solutions program. These programs support increased on-farm adoption of BMPs and minimize impacts and enhance benefits to biodiversity, through support for the development and adoption of practices to improve soil health, avoid excess application of nutrients, and reduce the risk of nutrient runoff, among other things. These programs also facilitate and support knowledge transfer on tools and approaches for nutrient and pest management, to increase awareness and usability of practices and technologies that reduce environmental risks. AAFC also conducts and supports research and development to enhance BMPs and technologies in agriculture, including the co-development of scientifically proven and economically viable Integrated Pest Management and Nutrient Management practices with stakeholders, and accelerating the research, development, and adoption of alternative pest management solutions. Pesticides HC leads the Rapid Priority Review Stream for Lower Risk Pesticides, which approves lower-risk pesticides through a streamlined process and tiered data requirements, compared to conventional pesticides. HC is expanding a monitoring pilot project to a National-Scale Water Monitoring Program for Pesticides, which will collect real-world data from pesticide monitoring programs in Canada, particularly on pesticide concentrations that could cause acute and/or chronic impacts to invertebrates, fish, and plants in water. This data will directly support decision making related to environmental impacts and risk assessments. HC is also developing a Pesticide Use Information Framework, a multi-pronged model for access, delivery, and management of pesticide information. Accurate characterization of risks associated with pesticides will support regulatory decisions and the development of risk management options, leading to increased protections for the environment and biodiversity to help reduce risk. NRCan conducts scientific research activities supporting implementation of the Forest Pest Risk Management: National Research Agenda (2019-2029) to contribute to reducing the use of chemical forest pest control through ongoing development and evaluation of science-based alternative forest pest control tools and strategies. Chemicals The Chemicals Management Plan, led by ECCC and HC, includes assessing and managing risks to the environment and health from a wide range of substances in consumer products, food, cosmetics, drugs, drinking water, pesticides, and industrial releases. This includes ensuring that no new substances are introduced into the Canadian marketplace before undergoing ecological and health risk assessments, and the implementation of management measures when required. CIRNAC will continue to lead the Northern Contaminants Program, in partnership with ECCC, DFO, HC, northern Indigenous organizations, and others, to facilitate the monitoring and assessment of persistent organic pollutants and chemicals of emerging Arctic concern, in support of northern public health advice, the work of the Stockholm Convention and of the Arctic Council. ECCC will continue the Great Lakes Water Quality Monitoring and Surveillance Program for chemicals of mutual concern (US-Canada), contributing Canadian monitoring, data, and scientific expertise to the State of the Great Lakes report, in support of the Canada-US Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement. Under the Whales Initiative, DFO and ECCC are examining the threat of contaminants on key priority whale species and their prey. This work involves monitoring of contaminants in air, freshwater, wastewater, sediment, whales, and their prey. The Integrated Satellite Tracking of Pollution (ISTOP) Program, operated by ECCC together with TC, uses RADARSAT Constellation Mission data to detect and report on oil pollution in Canadian waters. This is part of an ongoing effort to minimize or eliminate coastal water pollution, which adversely affects marine birds, mammals, and their ecosystems. Plastics ECCC, DFO, CIRNAC, NRC, TC, StatCan, NRCan, and HC are working to advance a circular plastics economy to prevent and reduce plastic pollution on several fronts (e.g., science, innovation, mobilizing Canadians, international actions). ECCC is working with PTs to implement the Canada-wide Strategy and Action Plan on Zero Plastic Waste, which includes developing guidance to prevent and reduce plastics from entering the environment from industrial discharges and wastewater treatment systems. CIRNAC, ECCC, DFO, and HC are advancing Canada's Plastic Science Agenda to gather information on plastic waste in the environment, track the effectiveness of actions, and inform policy development. Two Innovation Solution Canada challenges have been funded in relation to marine shipping, on novel ways to reuse and recycle fiberglass from end-of-life vessels, and on prototype technology that can be fitted on a vessel to capture microplastics in greywater. TC continues to engage on the International Maritime Organization's Action Plan to address marine plastic litter from ships. Air pollutants ECCC establishes and administers regulatory and non-regulatory measures to reduce air pollution from industry, and consumer and commercial products. ECCC and TC establish and administer measures to reduce air pollutant emissions from transportation. ECCC also implements Canada's Air Quality Management System, which provides a cross-Canada framework to reduce air pollutant emissions and improve air quality in collaboration with PTs.

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: The 2030 Strategy addresses the KMGBF’s four goals to 2050 and 23 targets to 2030, matching the level of ambition of the KMGBF for each one. The targets represent an integrated package where each is critical to the success of the whole. Addressing targets in isolation will be inefficient and ineffective; rather, the 2030 Strategy strives to take a holistic approach that advances multiple priorities in parallel, maximizes co-benefits, and seeks to navigate any trade-offs. Of note, Targets 21, 22, and 23 (knowledge sharing; inclusion of Indigenous Peoples, women, and youth in decision making; and gender equality, respectively) play a key role in laying the foundation that cuts across all targets to achieve an approach that reduces inequalities in biodiversity policy and decision making. Canada is largely adopting each target as-is from the KMGBF, recognizing that the suite of targets represents a holistic package, with each one being critical to the overall goal of halting and reversing biodiversity loss. In some cases (e.g., the collective resource mobilization goals of Target 19), targets do not have a direct Canadian equivalent, only a global number, which Canada will contribute to. But in all cases, we are adopting the targets with the full ambition of the KMGBF.

