Government: Eritrea

National target title: Target 6: By 2030, the level of pollution from all sources, inter alia, excess nutrients, pesticides, herbicides, heavy metals, oil spills and plastics is assessed and pollution from excess nutrients, pesticides and herbicides is prevented, controlled or minimized to levels that are not harmful to ecosystem function and biodiversity.

Description: By 2030, the level of pollution from all sources, inter alia, excess nutrients, pesticides, herbicides, heavy metals, oil spills and plastics is assessed and pollution from excess nutrients, pesticides and herbicides is prevented, controlled or minimized to levels that are not harmful to ecosystem function and biodiversity.

Main policy measures: Policy support to promote the use of organic fertilizers and integrated pest management. The Department of Environment will promote segregation of plastic and other wastes.   Review and enforcement of existing pollution control legislations.

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: This target covers different sources of pollution including sea and land-based pollutants. The current status of most pollutants is not known. Thus, the target includes assessment of level of pollution and minimizing their effects.

Government: Eritrea

National target title: Target 10: By 2030, the capacity of institutions dealing with biodiversity is strengthened and technology-based and traditional knowledge related to biodiversity enhanced and the generated knowledge is shared, accessed and applied.

Description: By 2030, the capacity of institutions dealing with biodiversity is strengthened and technology-based and traditional knowledge related to biodiversity enhanced and the generated knowledge is shared, accessed and applied.

Main policy measures: Cross-institutional coordination and collaboration, multi-stakeholder engagement, partnership development, network development and knowledge management improving the knowledge, skills, competencies and attitudes of individuals (including policymakers, planners, practitioners, and the public) will be implemented.

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: These two targets cover the following elements: Capacity building and development, including access to and transfer of technologies and innovations; Technical and d scientific cooperation Improved accessibility to relevant biodiversity data, information and knowledge management practices, and traditional knowledge of local communities.

