Government: European Union

National target title: Reducing plastic pollution

Description: By 2030, reduce by 50% plastic litter at sea and by 30% microplastics released into the environment.

Main policy measures: Overview (target 7): The Zero Pollution Action Plan contains the overall target of reducing by 2050 air, water and soil pollution to levels no longer considered harmful to health and natural ecosystems and that respect the boundaries our planet can cope with, thus creating a toxic-free environment. It further includes the specific target of reducing by 50% plastic litter at sea and by 30% microplastics released into the environment. The Plastics Strategy aims to transform the way plastic products are designed, produced, used and recycled in the EU to protect our environment and reduce marine litter, greenhouse gas emissions and our dependence on imported fossil fuels. Main legislation in place: The Directive on single-use plastics aims to prevent and reduce the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. The Directive on packaging , including the daughter Directive on plastics bags , which aim to prevent the production of packaging waste (in particular of plastic bags). The Directive on Port Reception Facilities aims to protect the marine environment against the negative effects from discharges of waste from ships using ports located in the Union, while ensuring the smooth operation of maritime traffic. The Waste Framework Directive and further waste management legislation, including the Delegated Regulation on plastic waste shipments . The Marine Strategy Framework Directive (including Commission Decision (EU) 2017/848 ) establishes a framework within which Member States shall take the necessary measures to achieve or maintain good environmental status in the marine environment. In order to do so, they must monitor quantities and impacts of marine litter, including plastic, set environmental targets, and take the necessary measures so as to ensure that quantities and impacts of litter do not harm the environment or biodiversity. The Recast Drinking Water Directive aims to protect human health from the adverse effects of any contamination of water intended for human consumption and includes provisions to address emerging compounds of concern such as microplastics (i.e. Article 13(6)). The Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive concerns the collection, treatment and discharge of urban waste water and the treatment and discharge of waste water from certain industrial sectors. The Commission Regulation concerning the REACH restriction of synthetic polymer microparticles aims to restrict intentionally added microplastics. The provisional agreement on the Revision of EU legislation on Packaging and Packaging Waste aims to establish requirements for the entire life cycle of packaging as regards environmental sustainability and labelling. In particular, Article 7 setting a minimum percentage of recycled content per packaging, Article 20 on plastic carrier bags and Article 46 setting recycling targets are of relevance. The provisional agreement on the revision of the Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive contains new provisions on monitoring the presence of microplastics. Legislation proposed: The Commission proposal on preventing pellet losses to reduce microplastic pollution aims to lay down obligations for the handling of plastic pellets at all stages of the supply chain to prevent losses. The Commission proposal on water pollutants contains amendments to allow including microplastics in the next Watch List and add microplastics to the indicative list of main pollutants. Other policy instruments: The Circular economy action plan includes specific commitments to propose mandatory requirements for recycled content and waste reduction measures for key products and to address the presence of microplastics in the environment. The Plastics Strategy aims to transform the way plastic products are designed, produced, used and recycled in the EU to protect our environment and reduce marine litter, greenhouse gas emissions and our dependence on imported fossil fuels. The Zero Pollution Action Plan includes the specific targets of reducing by 50% plastic litter at sea and by 30% microplastics released into the environment by 2030. The first Zero Pollution Monitoring and Outlook offers a snapshot of the current state of the pollution in the EU and shows the progress made thus far on the 2030 zero pollution targets. Monitoring of microplastic present in drinking water ( Recast Drinking Water Directive ), ground- & fresh water (Commission proposal on water pollutants ), wastewater ( Commission proposal for the revision of the Urban Wastewater treatment Directive ) and in coastal and marine waters under the Marine Strategy Framework Directive (see above). The Transition Pathway for the Textiles ecosystem , co-created with stakeholders, identifies 50 specific actions to make the textiles ecosystem greener, more digital and to ensure its long-term resilience and competitiveness.

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: This EU contribution aligns with GBF Target 7, the element concerning plastic pollution. Together with other EU contributions, this EU contribution contributes to the EU implementation of Targets 4 and 10

Government: European Union

National target title: Reducing pollution

Description: Reduce by 2050 air, water and soil pollution to levels no longer considered harmful to health and natural ecosystems and that respect the boundaries our planet can cope with, thus creating a toxic-free environment, including through reducing by 50% the sale of antimicrobials for farmed animals and in aquaculture, phase out mercury, reduce emissions of air pollutants and set environmental quality standards for priority hazardous substances in water.

Main policy measures: Overview (target 7): The Zero Pollution Action Plan contains the overall target of reducing by 2050 air, water and soil pollution to levels no longer considered harmful to health and natural ecosystems and that respect the boundaries our planet can cope with, thus creating a toxic-free environment. The Chemicals Strategy for Sustainability proposes measures to further phase out the most harmful chemicals, like endocrine disruptors and persistent substances. Main legislation in place (non-exhaustive): The EU has a comprehensive chemicals framework comprising of more than 40 legislative instruments, of which the most important are listed below: The Regulation concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restrictions of Chemicals (REACH) is the main EU law to protect human health and the environment from the risks that can be posed by chemicals and gave way to a large number of secondary legislation. The Biocidal Products Regulation concerns the making available on the market and use of biocidal products. The Recast Regulation on persistent organic pollutants (POPs) lays down rules on persistent organic pollutants. The Industrial Emissions Directive lays down rules on integrated prevention and control of pollution arising from industrial activities, as well as rules to prevent or reduce emissions into air, water and land and to prevent the generation of waste. The Mercury Regulation establishes measures and conditions concerning the use and storage of and trade in mercury, mercury compounds and mixtures of mercury, and the manufacture and use of and trade in mercury-added products, and the management of mercury waste. The Water Framework Directive establishes a framework for the protection of inland surface waters, transitional waters, coastal waters and groundwaters. It sets, inter alia, environmental Quality Standards for priority and priority hazardous substances in water. The Marine Strategy Framework Directive (including Commission Decision (EU) 2017/848 ) establishes a framework within which Member States shall take the necessary measures to achieve or maintain good environmental status in the marine environment. The Recast Drinking Water Directive aims to protect human health from the adverse effects of any contamination of water intended for human consumption and includes provisions on e.g. monitoring pollutants and establishing the minimum requirements on materials that come into contact with drinking water (Article 11). The Seveso III Directive lays down rules for the prevention of major accidents which involve dangerous substances, and the limitation of their consequences for human health and the environment. The National Emissions Reduction Commitments Directive establishes the emission reduction commitments for the Member States' anthropogenic atmospheric emissions of SO2, NOx, NMVOC, NH3 and PM2,5. Article 9 on monitoring air pollution impacts on ecosystems is of particular relevance. The European Industrial Emission Portal Regulation sets out rules on the reporting of environmental data from industrial installations. The Regulation on Ecodesign for Sustainable Products aims to establish a framework for setting ecodesign requirements for sustainable products. The provisional agreement on the Revision of the Industrial Emissions Directive aims to improve the Directive’s effectiveness in preventing or minimising the emissions of pollutants by agro-industrial installations at source and supports the transition towards the use of safer or less toxic chemicals, amongst others The provisional agreement on the revision of the Mercury Regulation sets out rules as regards dental amalgam and other mercury-added products subject to manufacturing, import and export restrictions. The provisional agreement on the revision of the Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive includes a requirement for the removal of a broad spectrum of micro-pollutants (substances or their breakdown products considered hazardous to human health or the environment, as set out in Part 3 and Part 4 of Annex I to the REACH Regulation) from urban wastewaters by means of quaternary treatment. The provisional agreement on the revision of the Regulation on classification, labelling and packaging of chemicals aims to clarify the rules on labelling chemical substances and the required information for chemicals sold online . Legislation proposed (non-exhaustive): The Commission proposal on water pollutants aims to improve the environmental quality of European freshwaters and protect the environment from the adverse effects of hazardous chemicals and air pollution. The Commission proposal for a Regulation establishing a common data platform on chemicals , the Commission proposal for a Regulation on the re-attribution of scientific and technical tasks and improving cooperation among Union agencies and the Commission proposal for a Directive on the re-attribution of scientific and technical tasks to the European Chemicals Agency as part of the one-substance one-assessment package aim to streamline assessments of chemicals across EU legislation; strengthen the knowledge base on chemicals; and ensure early detection and action on emerging chemical risks. Other policy instruments (non-exhaustive): The Zero Pollution Action Plan (see implementation of actions ) includes specific targets such as reducing by 50% the use of more hazardous pesticides and the sale of antimicrobials for farm animals and in aquaculture by 2030. The first Zero Pollution Monitoring and Outlook offers a snapshot of the current state of the pollution in the EU and shows the progress made thus far on the 2030 zero pollution targets. The Chemicals Strategy for Sustainability (see implementation of actions ) aims to better protect citizens and the environment from harmful chemicals, and boost innovation by promoting the use of safer and more sustainable chemicals. The Commission Recommendation for safe and sustainable chemicals aims to promote research and innovation for safer and more sustainable chemicals and materials. EU Biodiversity Strategy , in particular the following actions in the EU Biodiversity Strategy Actions Tracker : Target 10: Significant progress in the remediation of contaminated soil sites. Action 49: Zero Pollution Action Plan for Air, Water and Soil Action 50: EU Chemicals Strategy for Sustainability The Pharmaceuticals Strategy includes actions for high quality, safe and environmentally sustainable medicines. The Transition Pathway for the Textiles ecosystem , co-created with stakeholders, identifies 50 specific actions to make the textiles ecosystem greener, more digital and to ensure its long-term resilience and competitiveness.

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: This EU contribution aligns with GBF Target 7, the element on reducing pollution from all sources. Together with other EU contributions, this EU contribution contributes to the EU implementation of Targets 4 and 10.

Government: European Union

National target title: Reducing pesticides use and risk

Description: By 2030, reduce the overall use and risk of chemical pesticides by 50% and the use of more hazardous pesticides by 50%.

Main policy measures: Overview (target 7): The Zero Pollution Action Plan contains the overall target of reducing by 2050 air, water and soil pollution to levels no longer considered harmful to health and natural ecosystems and that respect the boundaries our planet can cope with, thus creating a toxic-free environment. It further includes the specific target of reducing the overall use and risk of chemical pesticides by 50% and the use of more hazardous pesticides by 50% by 2030. Main legislation in place: The Regulation concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and related legislation lay down rules for the authorisation of such products to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. The Sustainable Use of Pesticides Directive establishes a framework to achieve a sustainable use of pesticides by reducing the risks and impacts of pesticide use on human health and the environment and promoting the use of integrated pest management and of alternative approaches or techniques such as non-chemical alternatives to pesticides. The Water Framework Directive establishes a framework for the protection of inland surface waters, transitional waters, coastal waters and groundwaters, amongst others to reduce the pollution of groundwater and prevent further pollution. The Recast Drinking Water Directive aims to protect human health from adverse effects of any contamination of drinking water, and Article 4(2) requires Member States to ensure that their measures do not lead to the increase in pollution of waters used for the production of drinking water. The Marine Strategy Framework Directive (including Commission Decision (EU) 2017/848 ) establishes a framework within which Member States shall take the necessary measures to achieve or maintain good environmental status in the marine environment. The Strategic Plans Regulation under the Common Agriculture Policy , notably Article 31(4)(f), requires Member States to establish eco-schemes, which can include actions for sustainable and reduced use of pesticides. Legislation proposed: The Commission proposal for a Soil Monitoring Law aims to put in place a soil monitoring framework and to improve soil health to achieve healthy soils by 2050, amongst others to reduce soil contamination to levels no longer considered harmful to human health and the environment . Other policy instruments: The Farm to Fork Strategy , the EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2030 and the Zero Pollution Action Plan all include the commitment to reduce the overall use and risk of chemical pesticides by 50% and the use of more hazardous pesticides by 50% by 2030. The Circular Economy Action Plan sets out actions for the EU’s transition to a circular economy, which will reduce pressure on natural resources. The first Zero Pollution Monitoring and Outlook offers a snapshot of the current state of the pollution in the EU and shows the progress made thus far on the 2030 zero pollution targets. The Revision of the EU Pollinators Initiative - A new deal for pollinators aims, amongst other objectives, to mitigate the impacts of pesticide use on pollinators. The Chemicals Strategy for Sustainability aims, amongst other actions, to develop an indicator framework on chemicals including pesticides by 2024.

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: This EU contribution aligns with GBF Target 7, the element on pesticides. Together with other EU contributions, this EU contribution contributes to the EU implementation of Targets 4 and 10.

Government: European Union

National target title: Reducing nutrient losses

Description: By 2030, reduce by 50% nutrient losses from agriculture while ensuring that there is no deterioration in soil fertility and reduce by 25% the EU ecosystems where air pollution threatens biodiversity.

Main policy measures: Overview (target 7): The Zero Pollution Action Plan contains the overall target of reducing by 2050 air, water and soil pollution to levels no longer considered harmful to health and natural ecosystems and that respect the boundaries our planet can cope with, thus creating a toxic-free environment. It further includes the specific targets of reducing nutrient losses from agriculture by 50% by 2030 and reducing by 25% the EU ecosystems where air pollution threatens biodiversity. Main legislation in place: The Water Framework Directive establishes a framework for the protection of inland surface waters, transitional waters, coastal waters and groundwaters, amongst others to reduce the pollution of groundwater. In 2022, the Commission proposed certain amendments to the Directive . The Marine Strategy Framework Directive (including Commission Decision (EU) 2017/848 ) establishes a framework within which Member States shall take the necessary measures to achieve or maintain good environmental status in the marine environment. The Nitrates Directive lays down rules to reduce water pollution caused or induced by nitrates from agricultural sources and preventing further such pollution. The Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive concerns the collection, treatment and discharge of urban waste water and the treatment and discharge of waste water from certain industrial sectors. The Industrial Emissions Directive lays down rules on integrated prevention and control of pollution arising from industrial activities. The provisional agreement on the revision of the Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive further reduces nutrient releases with more stringent limit values to treat nitrogen and phosphorus. The provisional agreement on the Revision of the Industrial Emissions Directive improves the Directive’s effectiveness in preventing or minimising the emissions of pollutants by agro-industrial installations at source. The National Emissions Reduction Commitments Directive establishes the emission reduction commitments for the Member States' anthropogenic atmospheric emissions of SO2, NOx, NMVOC, NH3 and PM2,5. Article 9 on monitoring air pollution impacts on ecosystems is of particular relevance. The Recast Drinking Water Directive aims to protect human health from adverse effects of any contamination of drinking water, and Article 4(2) requires Member States to ensure that their measures do not lead to the increase in pollution of waters used for the production of drinking water. The European Industrial Emission Portal Regulation sets out rules on the reporting of environmental data from industrial installations. Legislation proposed: The Commission proposal for a Soil Monitoring Law aims to put in place a soil monitoring framework and to continuously improve soil health in the Union to achieve healthy soils by 2050. It requires Member States to address excess nutrient content in soil. Other policy instruments: Zero Pollution Action Plan (see overview) The first Zero Pollution Monitoring and Outlook offers a snapshot of the current state of the pollution in the EU and shows the progress made thus far on the 2030 zero pollution targets. The Farm to Fork Strategy includes the commitment to reduce nutrient losses by at least 50% while ensuring that there is no deterioration in soil fertility. The Circular Economy Action Plan contains the commitment to develop an Integrated Nutrient Management Plan to ensure more sustainable application of nutrients and stimulating the markets for recovered nutrients. EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2030 , in particular the following target and actions in the EU Biodiversity Strategy Actions Tracker : Target 13 – The losses of nutrients from fertilisers are reduced by 50%, resulting in the reduction of the use of fertilisers by at least 20%. Action 47: Take actions to reduce nutrient losses and pollution from nitrogen and phosphorus Action 48: Integrated Nutrient Management Action Plan Action 49: Zero Pollution Action Plan for Air, Water, and Soil Action 50: EU Chemicals Strategy for Sustainability The Commission Communication on ensuring availability and affordability of fertilisers aims to maintain a sustainable European fertilisers’ production, optimise use and reduce dependency on mineral fertilisers .

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: This EU contribution aligns with GBF Target 7, the element concerning nutrients. Together with other EU contributions, this EU contribution contributes to the EU implementation of Targets 4 and 10.

