Government: Lao People's Democratic Republic

National target title: Target 21: By 2030, national monitoring of land use changes and biodiversity objectives will have been enhanced by interdepartmental cooperation for data collection and sharing, to improve biodiversity management and policy development through reliance on data to be maintained in a national database.

Description: The target reflects the need for better information on biodiversity and management effects and effectiveness in Lao PDR.

Main policy measures: Management of biodiversity-related data is centralized in a new national database held and operated by one department.

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: In all cases, alignment is high owing to the direct influence of data on management quality.

Government: Lao People's Democratic Republic

National target title: Target 10a: By 2030, the quality of life and well-being of Lao people will have been improved by ensuring food security and nutrition through the promotion of environmentally sustainable management of agriculture, forestry, and fisheries, with enhanced ecosystem resilience and ecosystem functioning by using best practices.  Target 10b:  By 2030, the areas burned by wildfire will have been substantially reduced by controlling the number of hotspots.

Description: Improved management of all types of ecosystems and reduced impacts of agriculture and wildfire.

Main policy measures: Promote commercial forest plantations up to 0.5 million ha on degraded lands designed to offset impacts of logging. 01 national gene bank is established with 100 native species. Promote environmentally sustainable management of fisheries, agriculture, and forests production. Increase the area of forest certified. Management of protection forest areas is improved include biodiversity as a key objective in management plans. The Forest Law and Agriculture Law

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: Goal A – Reduce extinction, increase resilience and integrity Goal B – Sustainable use and management Goal D  –  Technical and science cooperation

Government: Lao People's Democratic Republic

National target title: Target 7: By 2030, known chemical pollutants and soil nutrient loss will have been reduced by 50%, and the recycling of waste products will have been increased.

Description: Reduced chemical pollutants and waste products

Main policy measures: Positive incentives for agriculture and forestry community producers are expected to be provided to reduce the use chemical substances Sources of aquatic pollution will be determined. The Decree on the Environmental Impact Assessment The Environmental Protection Law.

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: Goal B - Maintained and restored ecosystem functions. Target 7: Reduced impacts of pollution Target 10: Improved ecosystem management

