Government: Pakistan

National target title: Target 8 “By 2020, pollution, including from excess nutrients, has been brought to levels that are not detrimental to ecosystem function and biodiversity.”

Description: This National Target of the NBSAP contributes to Global Goals A (medium) and B (medium) as defined in the Global Biodiversity Framework. This national target has medium alignment with global target 7 only, and low alignment with global targets 2, 8, 10, and 12.

Main policy measures: nan

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: NBT 8: By 2020, pollution, including from excess nutrients, has been brought to levels that are not detrimental to ecosystem function and biodiversity Both the NBT and GBF Target emphasize reducing pollution to levels that are not harmful to biodiversity and ecosystem function. They both specifically mention excess nutrients as a source of pollution that needs to be addressed. The NBT could further align with the GBF Target by explicitly mentioning the need for integrated pest management and reducing the risk from pesticides and hazardous chemicals. Additionally, the NBT could include a specific mention of working towards eliminating plastic pollution, as stated in the GBF Target. Also, food security and livelihood impact of pollution need to be targeted.

Government: Pakistan

National target title: Target 7 “By 2020 areas under agriculture, aquaculture and forestry are managed sustainably, ensuring conservation of biodiversity.”

Description: The National Target 1 of the NBSAP contributes to Global Goal A (medium) only as defined in the Global Biodiversity Framework. This national target has medium alignment with global targets 10 and 17, and low alignment with global targets 1, 3, and 7.

Main policy measures: nan

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: Both the NBT and GBF Target emphasize the sustainable management of areas under agriculture, aquaculture, and forestry. The NBT specifically mentions the conservation of biodiversity, while the GBF Target expands on this by mentioning the sustainable use of biodiversity and the application of biodiversity-friendly practices. The NBT however misses fisheries, food security, and ecosystem functions and services contributing to people’s livelihoods. To further align the NBT with the GBF Target, the NBT could consider incorporating language that explicitly mentions the sustainable use of biodiversity and the application of biodiversity-friendly practices. It could also consider including specific examples of biodiversity-friendly practices such as sustainable intensification, agroecological approaches, and agrobiodiversity. Additionally, the NBT could provide more details on how it aims to maintain ecosystem functions and services in the managed areas.

