Government: Papua New Guinea

National target title: TARGET 7: Reduce pollution to levels that are not harmful to Papua New Guinea’s biodiversity

Description: By 2030, reduce pollution risks and the negative impacts of pollution on land, waters and seas, from all sources to levels that are not harmful to people, biodiversity or ecosystems. Consider cumulative effects over time and with a combination of pollutants. Reduce overall risk from pesticides and highly hazardous chemicals by at least half, reduce excess nutrients lost to the environment by at least half, and prevent, reduce and work towards eliminating plastic pollution. Ensure that any companies that are responsible for pollution (which could include mining, oil and gas, transport, agriculture, aquaculture, fishing, forestry and industrial processing) pay the full costs of cleanup and remediation, and compensate communities for loss of income, health and amenity. Strengthen and enforce legal requirements for disposal of industrial waste, including mine tailings. Ensure industries and developments with the potential to cause serious pollution of the environment are not permitted near fragile environments such as coral reefs and freshwater systems. In all system designs for waste disposal and pollution prevention, consider the likelihood of natural disasters, including earthquakes, tsunamis, exceptional rainfall and sea level rise.

Main policy measures: T7A.1    Effectively monitor and manage chemicals and all wastes through their life cycle and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil to minimise their impacts on human health and environment. Control agrochemical usage in agriculture, aquaculture and forestry to minimise contamination of surface water and groundwater. T7A.2    Ensure that all industries in future are not encouraged or permitted to contaminate surface water or groundwater. Develop and/or amend legislation to require tailings and other mining waste for all new mines to be contained and managed, rather than dispersed to the environment.  As a condition of extending mine life for existing mines, require future tailings and other mining wastes should be contained and managed rather than dispersed to the environment. T7A.3    Implement circular economy solutions to reduce chemical usage. By 2030, incentivise and encourage sustainable and natural management practices (i.e. regenerative agriculture) including integrated pest management to promote healthy crops, soils and ecosystems. T7A.4    Promote the use of eco-friendly chemicals and techniques in industry, agriculture, mining and households. T7A.5    Develop and promote awareness tools and materials on the need to reduce marine pollution, including sediments, plastics and marine debris from land-based activities. T7A.6    Raise awareness of pollution including plastics pollution across the country and by 2030, discourage use and disposal of plastic and plastic products in the environment. T7A.7    Support research and development in the area of bioaccumulation on pollutants to better inform regulators and policymakers. T7A.8    Develop, implement and monitor PNG water and air quality and environmental standards, working in cooperation with other Pacific nations. T7A.9    Finalise and implement PNG’s waste management policy and legislation that incorporates functioning systems for collection, disposal and recycling of waste in all major settlements. Work with other Pacific nations to further advance approaches to safe and sustainable disposal of all types of waste, and to educate industry and the community about waste disposal. T7A.10    Introduce and enforce adequate legislation with penalties for oil and chemical discharge including accidental spillage, and ensure that cleanups are enacted quickly and completely. Use all measures to ensure responsible companies pay for cleanup and compensation, including adequate compensation to affected community members for loss of income. T7A.11    Ensure standards of chemical contamination for foods for human consumption are adhered to and are regularly monitored. T7A.12    Prevent potential pollution sources being located where operation or accidents could result in serious pollution incidents, e.g. in water catchments or areas that could be affected by tsunamis, earthquakes or sea level rise. T7A.13    By 2030, ensure environmental safeguards are in place to achieve food security and sustainable livelihoods at the community level.

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: All elements of the goal and target are covered

