Government: Qatar

National target title: Target 4.2: Maintain and restore the genetic diversity for local populations of threatened species

Description: This target aims to maintain and restore the genetic diversity within and between local populations of native, wild and domesticated species, in order to maintain their adaptive potential. Genetic diversity is critical for the long-term stability, adaptability and resilience of biodiversity, both at the species and ecosystem levels, and it supports the continued provision of ecosystem goods and services. Management actions for the conservation of genetic resources within species, including domesticated species and their wild relatives, include ex situ and in situ conservation, as well as sustainable management practices.

Main policy measures: nan

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: Progress towards this target will directly support the attainment of: Goal A: Protect and Restore (Medium) Target 4: Halt Species Extinction, Protect Genetic Diversity, and Manage Human-Wildlife Conflicts (Medium). Justification: Target 4.2 refers specifically to genetic diversity within species. The risk of extinction is addressed in Target 4.1. Management of human-wildlife interactions is not considered in the national targets, due to the lack of adequate indicators. Additionally, this national target complements the following GBF targets: Target 1: Plan and Manage all Areas to Reduce Biodiversity Loss Target 2: Restore 30% of all Degraded Ecosystems. Target 3: Conserve 30% of Land, Waters and Seas Target 5: Ensure Sustainable, Safe and Legal Harvesting and Trade of Wild Species. Target 6: Reduce the Introduction of Invasive Alien Species by 50% and Minimize Their Impact. Target 7: Reduce Pollution to Levels That Are Not Harmful to Biodiversity. Target 8: Minimize the Impacts of Climate Change on Biodiversity and Build Resilience Alignment with Qatar's National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP): Progress towards this target will directly support the attainment of: Goal7: Protection of Qatar's genetic resources and ensuring their equitable sharing

Government: Qatar

National target title: Target 4.1: Halt local extinctions and reduce extinction risk for native species

Description: This target aims to ensure that adequate management actions are adopted to significantly reduce the extinction risk of native species in Qatar. It also aims to facilitate the conservation and recovery of local populations of threatened species to levels of abundance that are viable and allow them to fulfill their ecological roles in the ecosystems. Knowledge on the local status and main threats to species is essential to achieve this target. Apart from the IUCN’s Red List of Threatened Species, which is global, a national assessment of the extinction risk of species is also required. Various species-specific management interventions will be needed to ensure the conservation of species. Actions focused on the recovery of threatened species may include ex situ propagation/breeding, reintroduction/reinforcement, recovery planning, habitat management and, provision of breeding sites.

Main policy measures: nan

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: Progress towards this target will directly support the attainment of: Goal A: Protect and Restore (Medium) Target 4: Halt Species Extinction, Protect Genetic Diversity, and Manage Human-Wildlife Conflicts (Medium) Justification: Target 4. refers specifically to the risk of extinction. Genetic diversity within species is addressed in Target 4.2. Management of human-wildlife interactions is not considered in the national targets, due to the lack of adequate indicators. Additionally, this national target complements the following GBF targets: Target 1: Plan and Manage all Areas to Reduce Biodiversity Loss Target 2: Restore 30% of all Degraded Ecosystems. Target 3: Conserve 30% of Land, Waters and Seas Target 5: Ensure Sustainable, Safe and Legal Harvesting and Trade of Wild Species. Target 6: Reduce the Introduction of Invasive Alien Species by 50% and Minimize Their Impact. Target 7: Reduce Pollution to Levels That Are Not Harmful to Biodiversity. Target 8: Minimize the Impacts of Climate Change on Biodiversity and Build Resilience Alignment with Qatar National Development Strategy (2024–2030) This target is aligned with the Strategic National Outcome 6 - Environmental Sustainability - from the third QNDS, in particular: taking actions to protect endangered species on land, sea, and air. Alignment with Qatar's National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP): This target builds on existing goals and targets from Qatar's NBSAP (2015-2025), including: Goal 3: Preservation of coastal ecosystems and sustainability of marine resources. Goal 4: Preservation of key terrestrial biodiversity through effective management of protected areas. Target 3.3: By 2025, a marine turtle conservation action plan is in place and being implemented. Target 3.6: By 2025, key areas for whale sharks are known and protected. Target 4.4: Carry out scientific assessments for protected areas every 3 years to evaluate success in habitat and species conservation.

