Government: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

National target title: UK target 7: The UK will reduce pollution risks and the negative impact of pollution from all sources by 2030, to levels that are not harmful to biodiversity and ecosystem functions and services, considering cumulative effects, including: (a) by reducing excess nutrients lost to the environment by at least half, including through more efficient nutrient cycling and use; (b) by reducing the overall risk from pesticides and highly hazardous chemicals by at least half, including through integrated pest management, based on science, taking into account food security and livelihoods; and (c) by preventing, reducing, and working towards eliminating plastic pollution.

Description: UK target 7 : The UK will reduce pollution risks and the negative impact of pollution from all sources by 2030, to levels that are not harmful to biodiversity and ecosystem functions and services, considering cumulative effects, including: (a) by reducing excess nutrients lost to the environment by at least half, including through more efficient nutrient cycling and use; (b) by reducing the overall risk from pesticides and highly hazardous chemicals by at least half, including through integrated pest management, based on science, taking into account food security and livelihoods; and (c) by preventing, reducing, and working towards eliminating plastic pollution. Commitments : UK Through the UK Marine Strategy (UKMS), the UK is committed to the following targets relating to eutrophication: nutrient concentrations are below the levels which could lead to harmful eutrophication effects; chlorophyll concentrations are below levels which could lead to harmful eutrophication effects; dissolved oxygen content in coastal waters is above levels which could lead to harmful eutrophication effects. Through the UK Marine Strategy (UKMS), the UK is committed to the following targets relating to contaminants: concentrations of contaminants measured in water, sediment or marine biota comply with appropriate threshold values; biological or ecological effects on sea life due to contaminants are below thresholds agreed by Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic (OSPAR). Through the UK Marine Strategy (UKMS), the UK is committed to the following targets relating to acute pollution events: occurrence and extent of significant acute pollution events are minimised; the adverse effects of significant acute pollution events on the health of species and on the condition of habitat (such as their species composition and habitats relative abundance) are minimised and, where possible, eliminated. Through the UK Marine Strategy (UKMS), the UK is committed to the following targets relating to marine litter: a decrease in the total amount of the most common categories of litter found on surveyed beaches; a decrease in the number of items of litter on the seabed; a downward trend in the number of Northern Fulmars with more than 0.1 g of plastic particles in their stomach; develop an appropriate indicator to measure micro-litter in the marine environment. Through the UK Marine Strategy (UKMS), the UK is committed to the following targets relating to underwater noise: levels of anthropogenic impulsive sound sources do not exceed levels that adversely affect populations of marine animals; levels of anthropogenic continuous low-frequency sound do not exceed levels that adversely affect populations of marine animals. Under the G20, the UK has committed to promote the socio-economic benefits of establishing policies to prevent marine litter, to promote sustainable waste management, and raise awareness, promote education and research, and has also committed to the Osaka Blue Ocean Vision , which aims to reduce additional pollution by marine plastic litter to zero by 2050 through a comprehensive life-cycle approach. England Pesticides: we will continue to encourage farmers through the Sustainable Farming Incentive (SFI) to increase knowledge and identify opportunities for greater use of integrated pest management approaches; create habitats for natural crop pest predators; use companion cropping to suppress weeds, reduce diseases and provide protection from crop pests; and minimise use of insecticides. From this year farmers will be paid to use precision application techniques to minimise herbicide use. Chemicals: we will increase the amount of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) material being destroyed or irreversibly transformed by 2030. Chemicals: we will seek to eliminate the use of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) by 2025 in line with our commitments under the Stockholm Convention . Nutrients: we will reduce nitrogen, phosphorus and sediment pollution from agriculture into the water environment by at least 40% by 31 Dec 2038, compared to a 2018 baseline. Nutrients: We will introduce policies to reduce ammonia which will contribute to achieving air quality targets. Plastic waste: we will significantly reduce and where possible prevent all kinds of marine plastic pollution – in particular, material that came originally from land. Scotland The extent of restored catchments and improvements in ecological status of rivers, lochs and wetlands will have increased, with waterbodies in good condition. We will reduce the amount of waste generated in Scotland, as we accelerate our move to a circular economy: driven by our Circular Economy and Waste Route Map to 2030 , ensuring that materials that cannot be avoided, reused or recycled are managed in a way that minimises environmental and climate impacts, and encourages management of materials further up the waste hierarchy. Delivery of the National Litter and Flytipping Strategy (published 2023), which sets out how national and local government, business, third sector, communities and individuals can work together to support behaviour change, improve infrastructure and strengthen enforcement, in order to protect our environment, better value our resources as a society and prevent the escape of materials from the economy. We will ensure that the Scottish Nitrogen Balance Sheet to be established by March 2022, reflects the contributions to air pollution from all sectors of the economy. Also, ensure that the new evidence base from the Balance Sheet is used to inform future policy making around air quality and its alignment with other strategic frameworks. Once established, the Balance Sheet will be reviewed on a regular basis. Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) will continue with a focussed approach in diffuse pollution priority catchments to drive compliance with environmental legislation to help achieve water quality objectives and improve bathing water quality. This work also promotes a circular economy by minimising nutrient and soil loss and saving farmers money. We will support investigation into the method of assessing risk of significant harmful ecological effects from atmospheric nitrogen (nitrogen deposition and elevated concentrations of ammonia and NOx), comparing critical loads/levels with dose-response or other options. Wales We will update our Natural Resources Policy which sets out Welsh Government policies to deliver the sustainable management of natural resources. This will include actions to reduce the pressures such as pollution impacting biodiversity and ecosystems. We will work with the farming community to implement the Water Resources Regulations 2021 to target activities known to cause pollution. We will implement The Clean Air Plan for Wales (2020) which aims to reduce the impacts of air pollution on human health, biodiversity, the natural environment and our economy. We will strive to achieve the highest rates of recycling in the world. This includes working with local government, businesses, social enterprises and communities to take the next steps in becoming a truly advanced recycling nation. The Beyond Recycling strategy sets out our approach to making a circular economy in Wales a reality. We will continue to implement our legislation to eradicate single use plastics in Wales through the Environmental Protection (Single-use Plastic Products) (Wales) Act 2023 . Crown Dependencies The Isle of Man By 2025, Government will monitor, understand and substantially reduce environmental pollution pressure on biodiversity. We will continue and improve the identification and monitoring of pollution on high-risk land, and in freshwater and marine habitats, minimising risks by effective legislation, facilities, incentives and sanctions. By 2025, we will bring pollution, including diffuse pollution, to levels which support healthy ecosystems and biodiversity. Overseas Territories The British Virgin Islands By 2036, we will upgrade the protection and restoration of water-related ecosystems through the prohibition of waste in these areas. By 2036, we will ensure that the dumpsite is better managed to reduce the risk of spontaneous combustion and release of toxic fumes, resulting in air pollution. We will manage the cumulative impacts of the charter yacht sector on the marine environment. We will develop a policy aimed at better managing the impacts of cruise tourism on other, more valuable, sub-sectors of the maritime tourism product and the wider marine environment. The Falkland Islands We will create a Waste Management Plan to implement for the Falkland Islands, and, in partnership with British Forces South Atlantic Islands (BFSAI), create a waste management facility and a new landfill designed and built to high specifications by 2025 to minimise environmental impact. We will develop a policy framework and identify and implement appropriate tools (e.g. legislation) to control and prevent pollution, including creating a protocol for dealing with terrestrial fuel spills, and investigating extension of appropriate international instruments to reduce marine pollution. We will decommission and replace the current power station in order to reduce polluting emissions. We will establish a list of hazardous substances and products typically disposed of in the Falkland Islands, including e-waste, batteries and agricultural chemicals, and identify options for appropriate disposal or recycling e.g. export supply chains. We will work with industry and business to source more sustainable, lower waste product options, and encourage them to explore viable options for tackling waste streams from existing economic activities. South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands By the end of 2028, all remaining oil, which it is possible to safely remove, will be removed from the disused whaling stations and removed from South Georgia. We will continue to support global efforts to remove plastic debris from our beaches by working with International Association of Antarctica Tour Operators (IAATO) to encourage ‘beach cleans’ to form a part of the visitor landing experience as debris poses an immediate threat to wildlife. The Government will cease to use avoidable single-use plastic by 2027.

Main policy measures: UK The UK Joint Fisheries Statement sets out the policies for achieving, or contributing to the achievement of, the eight fisheries objectives in the Fisheries Act : sustainability, precautionary, ecosystem, scientific evidence, bycatch, equal access, national benefit and climate change. The Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic (OSPAR) launched the second Regional Action Plan on Marine Litter in June 2022, setting out the action that OSPAR Contracting Parties will take to prevent and reduce marine litter from sources on land and at sea. The UK is working with other Contracting Parties to lead, support and implement the actions in the plan, which address the most abundant and harmful forms of marine litter. Some actions have resulted in recommendations, and the UK will be required to report on their implementation of these recommendations. The UK Government will continue working with all other contracting parties to the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic (OSPAR) to agree a regional action plan on underwater noise for the North-East Atlantic by 2025, setting out a series of national and collective actions to reduce underwater noise pollution. England The Environment Land Management Scheme includes the adoption of actions taken to reduce pollution levels in, and thus improve, waterbodies. Guidance for assessing the significance of noise disturbance against Conservation Objectives of Harbour Porpoise Special Areas of Conservation (SACs). Scotland The Global Commitment 2021 signatory report provides an overview and analysis of the commitments made by various organisations who signed onto the Global Commitment initiative in 2021 which set targets for 2025 to create a circular economy for plastic and tackle plastic pollution. Update to the Climate Change Plan 2018 – 2032 Securing A Green Recovery on a Path to Net Zero provides targets to reduce food waste and plastic waste and to achieve a circular economy. We will reduce the impact of air pollution on biodiversity by continuing to implement the actions in our Cleaner Air for Scotland 2: Towards a Better Place for Everyone . The River Basin Management Plan for Scotland 2021 ─ 2027 includes actions to address rural diffuse pollution and improve wastewater infrastructure with the aim to contribute to an overall improvement in water quality from 87% in 2020 to 98% in the long term. The National Islands Plan Plana Naiseanta nan Eilean includes actions related to the deposit return scheme and circular economy. The Food waste reduction: action plan sets out measures to reduce Scotland’s food waste by 33% by 2025 through transitioning to a circular, resource-efficient economy. The next steps in delivering our vision for Scotland as a leader in sustainable and regenerative farming include objectives to reduce the use of agrochemical inputs and increase the use of non-chemical related actions. Rules for farmers and land managers to prevent water pollution specifies steps that farmers and land managers must take to prevent manure, fertiliser and soil getting into watercourses. We recently consulted on our Circular Economy and Waste Route Map and are passing a Circular Economy Bill , both of which will help us address the harms of plastic and other wastes entering the environment. They include commitments and enablers such as banning certain single-use items, introducing a deposit return scheme (DRS) and requiring kerbside collection and recycling of plastic film and flexible packaging by 2027. We will implement the many planned new actions in our refreshed Marine Litter Strategy to prevent litter entering our marine environment and support its removal. We recently introduced our Agriculture and Rural Communities Bill that will legislate to introduce a new framework of support for farmers and crofters that empowers them to realise their essential role in biodiversity restoration. Wales The Welsh Ministers’ Natural Resources Policy sets out how Welsh Government policies deliver environmental objectives, including sustainable use of natural resources and reduced pollution levels to improve the condition of ecosystems and their services. The Environment (Air Quality and Soundscapes) (Wales) Act 2024 and the Clean Air Plan for Wales implement measures that contribute to improvements in the quality of the air environment in Wales and reduce the impacts of air pollution on human health, biodiversity, the natural environment and our economy. The Water Resources (Control of Agricultural Pollution) (Wales) Regulations 2021 aim to improve water quality and protect nature from agricultural pollution. Beyond Recycling sets out how the Welsh Government plans to make the circular economy in Wales a reality. The Environmental Protection (Single-use Plastic Products) (Wales) Act 2023 is an Act to tackle plastic pollution and deliver our commitment to abolish commonly littered single-use plastic products. Crown Dependencies The Isle of Man Managing our Natural Wealth , the Isle of Man's First Biodiversity Strategy 2015-2025 ─ this strategy sets out a vision for the future health of our biodiversity, and maps out the framework for action to conserve and enhance our natural richness for the health, enjoyment and economic well-being of all the people of the Isle of Man. This includes details on how the island plans to reduce pollution. Overseas Territories The British Virgin Islands Vision 2036: Building a Sustainable Virgin Islands sets out the overall vision to have a well balanced, people-centred Virgin Islands built on spirituality, social justice and equality; nurtured by trust, cultural knowledge and participatory governance; and strengthened by economic, environmental and social sustainability. One of the national outcomes of this policy is environmental sustainability. The Virgin Islands Strategic Blue Economy Roadmap 2020 – 2025 was d eveloped with support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). It sets out an integrated approach to ocean-based sustainable development which brings together economy, environment and society, consistent with the Sustainable Development Agenda (2030), Aichi Target 11 of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change (2015). This includes details on how the island plans to tackle pollution control [1] . The Falkland Islands The Falkland Islands Environment Strategy 2021-2040 sets out the Falkland Islands’ objectives for the next 20 years, so that we can work towards a shared vision for the future of our environment. South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Protect Sustain Inspire (PSI) sets out the Islands’ seven priority areas for the period 2021 to 2025. It includes an overview of the range of activities and delivery commitments that will take priority. [1] The Roadmap was developed before the Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF) was agreed and is therefore consistent with the Aichi Targets agreed under the CBD for 2011-2020.

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: This UK target will also support the attainment of other GBF Targets. A full list of these aligned Targets can be found in the ‘Links to other elements’ section of the CBD ‘2030 Targets with Guidance Notes’ webpage ( https://www.cbd.int/gbf/targets)

