Government: Marshall Islands

National target title: Towards Integrated Biodiversity and Conservation Planning in the Republic of the Marshall Islands: An Analysis of Global Goals and Targets in the Context of Ongoing Updates

Description: The Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI) Environmental Protection Authority (EPA) is the focal point for the implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in the RMI. The “ Analysis of Global Goals and Targets in the Context of Ongoing Updates ” project is part of progress towards revising and updating the RMI National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP) in line with the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF; UN CBD, 2022) and enabling effective implementation of the CBD and GBF at the national level. 2024-10 [FINAL] RMI GBF Reim Align NBSAP EPA.pdf This report is the analysis of GBF goals and targets in the context of the ongoing update of the RMI Reimaanlok Conservation Plan and Facilitator’s Guide, so that Reimaanlok can effectively be seen as inclusive, and in lieu of, a new NBSAP to replace the old NBSAP ( RMI NBSAP Team, 2000). February (2026) is t he deadline for completion of the NBSAP update process and preparation of the 7 th National Report for submission to the CBD Secretariat. The focal point has invested considerable effort in attaining consensus among relevant agencies and non-Governmental actors in the RMI that this is the way forward for effective biodiversity conservation. By way of this report, the RMI EPA submits its progress towards its national targets, and introduces this integrated and holistic approach to the CBD Secretariat. The RMI has a National Conservation Planning Process called Reimaanlok (RNPT, 2008), which leads to implementation of innovative community-based management of marine and terrestrial resources with the use of a detailed Facilitator’s Guide (RNPT, 2012a&b). Reimannlok is facilitated via the RMI Coastal Management Advisory Council (CMAC) and is currently going through a substantive revision to align with the new Micronesia Challenge protected area targets and to recognize effective management outside of protected areas. The RMI has a two-decade old NBSAP (RMI NBSAP Team, 2000; fig. 4). It is one of the oldest among countries in the Pacific Small Island Developing States (SIDS) that have NBSAPs. It is lacking in substantive quantitative targets and is no longer practical. In part, the NBSAP has not been updated over the years because Reimaanlok is more substantive, and is the framework that is utilized. The RMI is effectively served by having biodiversity targets that are aligned with both Reimaanlok (as the implementor of national and local biodiversity conservation) and GBF (as the CBD instrument providing overarching and detailed guidance in a global context). Placing the NBSAP within Reimaanlok reflects the broader strategy and actions that are already being carried out on the ground, with the explicit addition of those aspects of biodiversity not covered by the update. The RMI submission of its biodiversity targets will therefore wait for the publication of the updated Plan and Facilitator’s Guide, with the integration of NBSAP and GBF text. The NBSAP becomes the intended global recognition of RMI biodiversity, powered by Reimaanlok from the bottom-up.

Main policy measures: Analysis results are discussed in two sections: • Goals-Based Assessment describes the analysis for the alignment of Reimaanlok and GBF goals; and • Targets-Based Assessment describes the analysis for the alignment of Reimaanlok and GBF targets. On the alignment between Reimaanlok and GBF goals, the analysis shows that there is almost full alignment with GBF goals A, B, and C. This is accomplished through integrity, connectivity, and resilience of all ecosystems being maintained, enhanced, or restored by local conservation management plans that have been designed and approved by the local communities. Furthermore, Reimaanlok is an all-inclusive process that emphasizes the inclusion of gender, youth, and vulnerable people. From this process the community’s capacity is increased along with socio-economic benefits. Goal D of GBF is beyond the scope of Reimaanlok to integrate within its goal mandate, but CMAC supports the regional and global initiatives that may be necessary for goal D to be implemented. Although a draft sustainable finance plan has been proposed, financing for Reimaanlok for all communities in the RMI has not been fully secured. GBF targets are arranged under the themes of 1. threats to biodiversity, 2. sustainability and use, and 3. tools and solutions for mainstreaming. On all three themes combined, the analysis yields an aggregate alignment score of 3.5 out of 5. Overall, the analysis of the 23 GBF targets in the context of Reimaanlok show that there is fairly good alignment. There are some targets that are not aligned at all due to the fact that policies or legislation has not been developed to address these areas, reducing the overall score. On most of the targets, there was a score of 4 or 5, which demonstrate almost complete alignment. Conclusion The analysis shows that there is a close alignment between Reimaanlok and the GBF goals and targets. There are some areas that are beyond the scope of Reimaanlok that are at the regional or international level. Since Reimaanlok is still going through the drafting and approval process, the targets are not as specific in this document as they will be in the final product. However, based on the discussions and draft documents, the targets will be significantly aligned with the GBF targets upon final completion.

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: *sections below are copied from the attached report. The goals-based assessment is a content analysis comparison of the descriptive text between Reimannlok and GBF. The goals section of Reimaanlok is contained within the updated draft of the Plan, and is not dependent on details still being developed for the updated Facilitator’s Guide. The targets-based assessment is a content analysis comparison of the descriptive text between Reimannlok and GBF, arranged by the three GBF target themes. The targets section (via SMART objectives and indicators) of Reimaanlok is contained within both the updated draft of the Plan and Facilitator’s Guide with appendices, with the latter still being developed. Therefore, it is necessary to explicitly identify those aspects of the GBF targets that are certain to be included in Reimaanlok ( ie. aligns) and those that are either likely or unlikely to be included ( ie . Gap analysis). At the time of writing this report it is not valid to differentiate whether an identified gap will be included or not, since the update is not complete. It remains useful, however, to have a quantitative measure of the target alignment between Reimaanlok and GBF, in addition to the descriptive text. Therefore, the analysis includes a score for each target between 0 and 5, with 0 being no alignment and 5 being full alignment. For example, if there are more gaps than alignment the score would be 1 or 2. Conversely, if there is more alignment than gaps, the score would be 3 or 4. Each GBF target theme receives an aggregate score, with all targets under the three themes further aggregated to yield a combined alignment score. The text of the GBF goals and targets are not re-written in this report, for brevity. Details can be found in UN CBD (2022) and on the CBD website for the GBF. Goals-Based Assessment Table 1 presents the analysis for the alignment of Reimaanlok and GBF goals. Reimaanlok goals are included in their entirety, while GBF goals are only referenced. Table 1: Alignment Between Reimaanlok and GBF Goals National Goals Reimaanlok Alignment with GBF Goals (A-D) Effective management of entire nearshore waters that aims to include at least 30% in Type 2 and/or Type 3 conservation areas and fisheries management between sites designed to achieve the ecosystem benefits desired by the community. A and B 20% land area in Type 2 or 3 conservation areas, and effective management of at least 30% of the entire atoll land areas including protection of cultural sites, invasive species management, and agroforestry that restores native habitats, and supports cultural, medicinal, livelihoods, food security, and coastal protection. A, B, and C Increased number of community members within each atoll who are deriving socio-economic benefits through the availability of sustainable livelihood options as identified through management plans. B and C Increased climate resilience of local communities through monitoring, education /outreach opportunities, disaster risk management programs, and nature-based solutions. A and B On the alignment between Reimaanlok and GBF goals, the analysis shows that there is almost full alignment with GBF goals A, B, and C. This is accomplished through integrity, connectivity, and resilience of all ecosystems being maintained, enhanced, or restored by local conservation management plans that have been designed and approved by the local communities. Furthermore, Reimaanlok is an all-inclusive process that emphasizes the inclusion of gender, youth, and vulnerable people. From this process the community’s capacity is increased along with socio-economic benefits. Although a draft sustainable finance plan has been proposed, financing for Reimaanlok for all communities in the RMI has not been fully secured. Goal D of GBF is beyond the scope of Reimaanlok to integrate within its goal mandate, but CMAC supports the regional and global initiatives that may be necessary for goal D to be implemented. Targets-Based Assessment Updated Reimaanlok targets are described to the extent they are currently available, while GBF targets are only referenced. Table 2 presents the alignment and gaps between the Reimaanlok and the GBF targets in relation to threats to biodiversity. It also presents the areas that do not align completely with those targets, and the associated alignment score. Table 2: Alignment Between GBF Targets Under Theme 1 and Re imaanlok Theme 1:   Reducing Threats to Biodiversity GBF Reimaanlok Target Aligns Gap Analysis Score 1 •Commitment to Micronesian Challenge 2030 •Effectively manage at least 50% of all marine resources (with 30% nearshore in conservation areas) and 30% of terrestrial resources •Community participation in all aspects of planning and implementation •Address loss of diversity to zero by 2030 4 2 •Commitment to Micronesian Challenge 2030 •Effectively manage at least 50% of all marine resources (with 30% nearshore in conservation areas) and 30% of terrestrial resources 5 3 •Commitment to Micronesian Challenge 2030 •Effectively manage at least 50% of all marine resources (with 30% nearshore in conservation areas) and 30% of terrestrial resources •Community participation in all aspects of planning and implementation •Increase the number of community members within each atoll who are deriving socio-economic benefits through the availability of sustainable livelihood options as identified through management plans 5 4 •All conservation areas are under effective management plans •Specific management actions to halt extinction, recovery, and maintenance of genetic diversity 3 5 •The management plans are developed using the ecosystem approach •The local community develops management plans •The plans include the allowable uses of the area •Addressing the issue of reducing the risk of pathogen spillover 4 6 •All conservation areas are under effective management plans •Addressing specific measures to eliminate, minimize, reduce, and/or mitigate the impacts of invasive alien species 1 7 •All conservation areas are under effective management plans •Addressing pollution risks and the negative impact of pollution from all sources 1 8 •All conservation areas are under effective management plans •Increased climate resilience of local communities through monitoring, education /outreach opportunities, disaster risk management programs and nature-based solutions •Addressing specific actions regarding ocean acidification 4 Overall Theme 1 - Reducing Threats to Biodiversity - Score 3.4 On reducing threats biodiversity, the analysis shows that Reimaanlok is fairly aligned with the targets under GBF. The main areas of misalignment or non-alignment are specifics in each target area. In other words, Reimaanlok is a vehicle and process that helps reduce threats to biodiversity, but there are specific policies, regulations, and actions that still need to be addressed. Table 3 presents the alignment and gaps between the Reimaanlok and the GBF targets in relation to sustainability and use. It also presents the areas that do not align completely with those targets, and the associated alignment score. Table 3: Alignment Between GBF Targets Under Theme 2 and Reimaanlok Theme 2:   Meeting People’s Needs through Sustainable Use and Benefit-sharing GBF Reimaanlok Target Aligns Gap Analysis Score 9 •The management plans are developed using the ecosystem approach •The local community develops the management plans which provides social, economic and environmental benefits •The management plans include the allowable uses of the area  which includes the management and use of wild species 5 10 •The management plans are developed using the ecosystem approach which ensures ares under agriculture, aquaculture, fisheries and forestry are managed sustainably •The local community develops the plans •The plans include the allowable uses of the area •Specific plans that include substantial increase of the application of biodiversity friendly practices 5 11 •The management plans are developed using the ecosystem approach •The local community develops the plans •Specific regulation of air, water and climate, soil health, pollination and reduction of disease risk 4 12 •Through protected and effective management, densely population areas are mainstreamed in the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, and ensure biodiversity-inclusive urban planning •No specific plans that significantly increase the area and quality 3 13 •No legal, policy, administrative and capacity-building measures at all levels, as appropriate, to ensure the fair and equitable sharing of benefits that arise from the utilization of genetic resources and from digital sequence information on genetic resources 0 Overall Theme 2 - Meeting People’s Needs through Sustainable Use and Benefit-sharing - Score 3.4 On meeting people’s needs through sustainable use and benefit sharing, the analysis showsthat Reimaanlok is fairly aligned with the targets under GBF. The main areas of misalignment or non-alignment are specifics in each target area. In other words, Reimaanlok is a vehicle and process that helps meet people’s needs through sustainable use and benefit sharing, but there are specific policies, regulations, legislation, and actions that still need to be addressed. Table 4 presents the alignment and gaps between the Reimaanlok and the GBF targets in relation to tools and solutions for mainstreaming. It also presents the areas that do not align completely with those targets, and the associated alignment score. Table 4: Alignment Between GBF Targets Under Theme 3 and Reimaanlok Theme 3:  Tools and Solutions for Implementation and Mainstreaming GBF Reimaanlok Target Aligns Gap Analysis Score 14 •The management plans are developed using the ecosystem approach •The process to develop management plans is all inclusive involving the national and local governments, NGOs, educational institutions and the community 5 15 •No legal, administrative or policy measures to encourage and enable business, and in particular to ensure that large and transnational companies and financial institutions: (a)Regularly monitor, assess, and transparently disclose their risks, dependencies and impacts on biodiversity, including with requirements for all large as well as transnational companies and financial institutions along their operations, supply and value chains, and portfolios (b) Provide information needed to consumers to promote sustainable consumption patterns (c) Report on compliance with access and benefit-sharing regulations and measures 0 16 •No policy, legislation, regulation or education on consumption issues. •No policy regarding reducing consumption and halving food waste 0 17 •Draft Biosafety legislation •Legislation pending 3 18 •The RMI does not have reform incentives, including subsidies, harmful for biodiversity 5 19 •Raised over $4 million for RMI MC Endowment fund •Drawn down over $230,000 in interest income for community support •Secured over $6 million in grants funding from fishing licenses and the vessel day scheme through PNA to support MIMRA’s coastal programs, the PAN office and salaries in MIMRA •Draft sustainable finance plan 4 20 •Through the Micronesian Challenge and the coordination of regional methodology for data collection, research and technical and scientific cooperation are achieved •Joint technology development and joint scientific research programs for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity are lacking 3 21 •CMAC as the technical advisory committee provides data, information and knowledge to the public and decision makers •Provides integrated and participatory management of biodiversity, strengthens communication, awareness, education, monitoring, research and knowledge management 5 22 •The participatory process of the establishment of effective management plans specifically includes full, equitable, inclusive, effective and gender-responsive representation and specifically includes women and girls, children and youth, and persons with disabilities 5 23 •The participatory process of the establishment of effective management plans specifically includes gender equality in the implementation of the conservation efforts through a gender-responsive approach, where all women and girls have equal opportunity and capacity to contribute 5 Overall Theme 3 -  Tools and Solutions for Implementation and Mainstreaming - Score 3.5 On tools and solutions for implementation and mainstreaming, the analysis shows the Reimaanlok is fairly aligned with the targets under GBF. The main areas of misalignment or non-alignment are specifics in each target area. In other words, Reimaanlok is a vehicle and process that provides tools and solutions for implementation and mainstreaming, but there are specific policies, regulations, legislation, and actions that still need to be addressed. On all three themes combined, the analysis yields an aggregate alignment score of 3.4 out of 5. Overall, the analysis of the 23 GBF targets in the context of Reimaanlok show that there is fairly good alignment. There are some targets that are not aligned at all due to the fact that policies or legislation has not been developed to address these areas, reducing the overall score. On most of the targets, there was a score of 4 or 5, which demonstrate almost complete alignment.

