Government: Nauru

National target title: Theme 2. Ecosystems Management

Description: Ecosystem management refers to the sustainable management and conservation of the natural resources and ecosystems found in this unique environment. Specific challenges are faced for small islands due to their small size, limited resources, and vulnerability to environmental threats. Effective ecosystem management involves integrating ecological, social, and economic considerations to ensure the long-term health and resilience of the ecosystems that support local communities and the economy. This may include measures such as protected area management, sustainable fisheries practices, and reforestation efforts.

Main policy measures: I dentify ing , secur ing and manag ing a marine protected area under the Coastal Fisheries and Aquaculture Act by NFMRA and secur ing and managing the priority Anibare area by DEMA with Home Affairs by 2030 under the EMCC and Heritage Act respectively to ensure the protection and management of critical natural ecosystems through technical assistance, consultative processes and capacity building initiatives to develop best practices and guidelines. DEMA to support at least 2 forest regeneration, restoration and rehabilitation initiatives at topside and coastal areas either through policy, projects, or funding where possible work with stakeholders by 2028 to promote, implement and manage these initiatives. Development of a Nauru Restoration Action Plan by DEMA through the engagement of technical assistance by 2026 to prioritize improved land management activities benefitting biodiversity in degraded forested areas. Engagement of a TA by DEMA to assist the multi-sectoral group to be trained and to utilize spatial planning by 2027 to better manage targeted protected and land improvement areas

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: Target 1: D evelop ment of a Nauru Restoration Action Plan by DEMA through the engagement of technical assistance by 2026 to p rioritize improv ed land management activities benefitting biodiversity in degraded forested areas Target 2: DEMA supporting at least 2 forest regeneration, restoration and rehabilitation initiatives at the topside and coastal areas either through policy, projects, or funding where possible. Additionally, working with stakeholders by 2028 to promote, implement and manage these initiatives. Target 3&5: I dentify ing , secur ing and manag ing a marine protected area under the Coastal Fisheries and Aquaculture Act by NFMRA. This includes secur ing and managing the priority Anibare area by DEMA with Home Affairs by 2030 under the EMCC and Heritage Act respectively, to ensure the protection and management of critical natural ecosystems through technical assistance, consultative processes and capacity building initiatives to develop best practices and guidelines. Target 4: Engage the local community on conservation efforts, habitat restoration, and advocacy for policies that support biodiversity. Also, supporting local farmers to consider using alternatives or integrated pest management techniques to minimize pesticide use. Target 7: Educate and engage the community: Raise awareness about the importance of biodiversity conservation and pollution reduction through educational programs, workshops, and community initiatives. Also, collaborating with other stakeholders: work with government agencies, non-profit organizations, and businesses to develop and implement strategies for pollution control and biodiversity conservation. Target 8: Engagement of a TA by DEMA to assist the multi-sectoral group to be trained and to utilize spatial planning by 2027 to better manage targeted protected areas and identified land improvement areas Target 11: Actions to protect, sustainably manage, and restore natural ecosystem that addresses societal challenges such as ecosystem restoration, human health, and food security effectively and adaptively while simultaneously providing human well-being and biodiversity benefits.

