Government: Sierra Leone

National target title: National Target 8 - By 2030 there is a 30% reduction on climate change related negative impacts on biodiversity across all ecosystems, based on all ongoing plans and actions and the introduction of nature-based solutions,  ecosystem-based approaches, climate-smart energy and agro-production systems, and mechanisms to address ocean acidification.

Description: The Government of Sierra  Leone signed Convention on Climate Change in 1995 and the Kyoto Agreement in 2005, to facilitate its collaboration with other countries in the global effort to stem climate change and mitigate its effects. The Environmental Protection Agency, Sierra Leone (EPA-SL), host the national focal point and  administers the ideals of the convention and domesticate its regulations. The EPA-SL Act and its subsequent amendments adequately addresses climate change issues in the country.

Main policy measures: The following measures will be taken A review of the legislation and regulations on climate change related emissions, such as refrigeration and adoption of low-emission technology. Based on its climate change policy the Government of Sierra Leone through its agency the Environmental Protection Agency aims to deliver the following: Establishment of the national secretariat for climate change (NSCC) Setting/developing air, water and soil quality standards, and ensure regular assessments and monitoring through control programs. Expanding clean energy utilization (e.g. solar, mini-hydro electric power, LPG, biomass stoves etc). Development of energy efficiency programmes through sensitization and awareness raising campaigns. Sustainable production of charcoal a reduce dependence on firewood. Development of alternative energy sources such as bio-fuels from sugarcane, corn, rice husk, etc. Developing agricultural and urban waste incineration programmes for energy production. Improved waste management through composting and recycling of waste. Development and enforcement of regulations on regular maintenance of vehicles (vehicle emission testing): formulation of transport plans. Improving and promoting use of public transport (e.g. road and water): for passengers and cargo to reduce traffic congestion and GHG’s emission

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: All aspects of the goal or target were covered in this national target.

