Government: Slovenia

National target title: Overall national goal B: Improve the knowledge, understanding and awareness of BD and its importance at all levels of society.

Description: This overall national goal is directly supported by the subordinate national objectives and measures. Corresponding measures from the Programme for the Protection of Plant and Animal Species and their Habitats and Ecosystems, and Programme for the Establishment of Protected Areas and the Restoration of Valuable Natural Features (see: table 1 of NEAP 2020–2030, https://www.cbd.int/doc/world/si/si-nbsap-v2-en.pdf ) are directly linked to national objectives. In this report information is provided up to the level of national objectives and guidelines. Related measures for each guideline/objective are available under Chapter 10 of NEAP 2020 - 2030 (see: https://www.cbd.int/doc/world/si/si-nbsap-v2-en.pdf ). National objective 4: The research and monitoring of biodiversity status will improve by 2030. 4.1 Upgrade internationally comparable monitoring of status of biodiversity indicators with an emphasis on species trend indicators. 4.2 Build the capacities of institutions and individuals involved in biodiversity conservation. 4.3 Centrally coordinate and keep records on listing (inventory-making) and monitoring of biodiversity , and transparently provide data and apply them as appropriate. National objective 5: By 2030, biodiversity will be better incorporated in the compulsory content of formal education, and non-formal education will improve as well. 5.1 Train teaching personnel responsible for presenting knowledge about biodiversity . 5.2 Include biodiversity content in natural science teaching curricula. National objective 6: By 2030, adequate information on the importance of biodiversity will be provided to the public. 6.1 Improve the provision of information to the public and introduction of new information technologies. 6.2 Train non-school personnel who directly or indirectly deal with biodiversity and ensure the updating of their knowledge. 6.3 Use existing services/networks to the greatest possible extent in education and awareness-raising (planned integration of biodiversity into education/awareness-raising programmes). 6.4 Monitor public opinion on biodiversity (in accordance with the plan for the entire NEAP) 6.5 Use tourism for promoting and raising awareness of biodiversity . 6.6 Support cooperation with and between companies and NGOs in awareness-raising, education, training and other forms of communication and in preparations for joint projects. 6.7 Acquaint the wider public about the links between climate change and biodiversity and effects on ecosystem services. National objective 7: The promotion of biodiversity and recognition of good practices supporting it will increase by 2030. 7.1 Recognise and develop trademarks contributing to the improvement of the conservation status of biodiversity . 7.2 Recognise and encourage companies and individuals for achievements in biodiversity conservation.

Main policy measures: This overall goal will be achieved through the implementation of national goals and measures of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity Conservation in Slovenia (see Chapter 10 of the NEAP 2020-30: https://www.cbd.int/doc/world/si/si-nbsap-v2-en.pdf ), the measures of the Programme for the Protection of Plant and Animal Species and their Habitats and Ecosystems, and Programme for the Establishment of Protected Areas and the Restoration of Valuable Natural Features (Table 1 of NEAP 2020-30). I n support of the implementation of this goal, Slovenia adopted the Guidelines for Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) from Preschool to Pre-university Education in 2007. The White Paper on Education (2011) also emphasised ESD, which "requires a paradigm shift in knowledge and values", while the principle of sustainable development should become "one of the key principles of education in Slovenia". The  White Paper commitments take into account relevant guidelines from recent key international documents such as  the 2030 Agenda, UNESCO Global Action Programme on ESD (2013), UNESCO GAP Roadmap for implementing ESD (2014), UNECE Strategy for implementing ESD (2005), the updated framework for implementing UNECE ESD strategy adopted at the 8th Ministerial Conference ‘Environment for Europe’ (2016), and the teacher’s manual Education for Sustainable Development Goals, Learning Objectives (UNESCO, 2017). Concrete measures of education for environmental protection are outlined in Table 13 of NEAP 2020-2030 (see: https://www.cbd.int/doc/world/si/si-nbsap-v2-en.pdf ). Education for nature conservation should be enhanced on the basis of the following guidelines : Ensure an adequate scope of acquiring knowledge from basic natural sciences, especially biology and ecology, in educational programmes for all professions that in any way concern interventions in nature. Establish regular training for services working in biodiversity conservation and management of its components for their high-quality performance of tasks. Rearding public awareness on the importance of nature conservation, the NEAP 2020-2030 outlines the following guidelines : Carry out the long-term planning of awareness-raising efforts by combining the activities of state bodies, public institutions and non-governmental organisations. Inform the general public about the links between climate change and its effects on ecosystems and biodiversity. Strengthen the education and awareness-raising capacities of public services working in biodiversity conservation, together with the use of targeted communication methods and modern forms of communication that are familiar to young people. Protected area managers should particularly serve as a role model in this process. Regarding Research, development and innovation for environmental protection, the NEAP 202-2030 outlines the two following goals: better understanding of the environment, i.e. improved knowledge base and database for Slovenia’s environmental policy and the implementation of this policy through different stakeholders and at different levels, development and adoption of innovative technologies and non-technological innovations that will accelerate the transition to a green, low-carbon and resource-efficient economy and society. There are also promising instruments at the EU and global level, in which Slovenia should become better involved. To support the achievement of the environmental goals of NEAP 2020-2030, Slovenia will have to achieve the following in research, development and innovation for environmental protection: rank among innovation leader countries in terms of indicators of environmental innovations and technologies, targeted investments in research and development contribute to bridging knowledge gaps, 60% of research contributes to sustainable development and 35% to the management and adaptation to climate change in the 2021–2030 programming period. Measures in research, development and innovation for environmental protection are outlined in Table 14 of NEAP 2020-2030 (see: https://www.cbd.int/doc/world/si/si-nbsap-v2-en.pdf ) . Regarding monitoring of the status of biodiversity, the NEAP 2020 – 2030 outines the following guidelines: Regularly monitor the biodiversity status in an internationally comparable way in terms of methods and scope. Regularly monitor the status of valuable natural features. Upgrade the system for monitoring the status of biodiversity and natural values so as to ensure the assessment of the status, pressures and patterns of change for all plant and animal species covered by the Natura 2000 network. Improve and upgrade indicators of the status of biodiversity and valuable natural features. Establish a comprehensive information system in such a way as to create a national hub of data and information crucial for the implementation and monitoring of the situation and planning of the nature protection policy, which will be publicly available and maintained. In addition, this overall national goal will be achieved through the implementation of the Natura 2000 Management Programme  governing the conservation of the principal part of biodiversity in Slovenia (plant and animal species and habitat types that are a common concern of the EU, (see: https://natura2000.gov.si/en/natura-2000/natura-2000-in-slovenia/natura-2000-management-programme/ ), the strategies of managing large carnivores: brown bear, wolf, lynx (see: https://www.gov.si/assets/ministrstva/MNVP/Dokumenti/Narava/Velike-zveri/strategija_ohranjanja_volka.pdf , https://www.gov.si/assets/ministrstva/MNVP/Dokumenti/Narava/Velike-zveri/strategija_rjavi_medved_2002.pdf , https://www.gov.si/assets/ministrstva/MNVP/Dokumenti/Narava/Velike-zveri/strategija_ris_2016_2026.pdf ) and through programs and strategies of other sectors (e.g. agriculture, fisheries, forestry). All measures necessary for the achievement of global biodiversity conservation goals are collected in the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity Conservation in Slovenia referred to in Chapter 10 of the NEAP 2020–2030, the objectives of which must be addressed together with the long-term goals and guidelines of the National Nature Conservation Programme, measures listed in Table 1 and other chapters of the NEAP 2020–2030 (eg. soil, water, biosafety and support measures).

Aspects of the goal or target are covered: nan

