Margarita Korkhmazyan is a citizen of the Republic of Armenia. She has a degree from Yerevan State University and has pursued post-graduate education at the Institute of Chemical Physics in Moscow. Margarita has professional experience working in the International Cooperation Department of the RA Ministry of Nature Protection until August 6, 2013. Since 2005, she has been the Head of the International Policy and Agreement Division of the International Cooperation Department at the RA MNP. She has also worked as a scientific worker at the Institute of Radiology of the Ministry of Health from 1989 to 1994 and at the Yerevan Institute of Physics from 1971 to 1989. Her fields of professional activity include environmental international cooperation, development of bilateral and multilateral agreements, coordination of activities related to international environmental conventions, and participation in negotiations with global and regional environmental organizations. She has also served as the Armenian representative to the UNECE Committee on Environmental Policy from 2007 to 2010. Margarita has been a member of the Implementation Committee to the EIA Convention from 2001 to 2008 and has participated in the preparation of various national and ministerial reports related to environmental issues. She has also been involved in organizing conferences, seminars, and workshops in Armenia. Additionally, she has been an adviser to the Association for Sustainable Human Development NGO and has been serving as an expert and board member for the organization since August 2013, focusing on information and international relations issues. Margarita has also participated in international meetings and processes such as the UNEP Governing Council/Global Ministerial Forums, UNEP process on preparation of Global Environmental Outlooks, UNEP meetings on Compliance & Enforcement of MEAs, and meetings within the Environment and Health process. She has also participated in meetings of UNECE CEP, meetings within the Espoo, Aarhus, Biodiversity Conventions, regional processes on international waters, combat desertification, biodiversity protection, climate change, etc. She has been involved in negotiations within the Nagoya Protocol elaboration and the meeting on the development of the draft Strategic Framework for capacity-building in support of the Nagoya Protocol. Margarita has also attended the UNEP RCM meeting. She has completed UNEP training courses on International Environmental Law and Diplomacy and has additional activity as a UNDP expert. She is an expert of the EU-GEF project "Enabling dialogue between governmental structures and nongovernmental sector within the framework of the \'Post Rio+20\' process in Armenia." Margarita has published about 20 scientific and environmental articles in international, Soviet, Armenian, and Russian editions